Home Work Assignment 4 
K.A.S.S. Kodithuwakku – 080240G 
 
1.   
 
1.1. Extreme Programming 
Extreme Programming is an agile software development approach which is intended to improve 
software quality and responsiveness to changing customer requirements. In this approach 
releases are introduced frequently with shorter development cycles which in turns improve the 
productivity and more customer requirements can be adopted. 
Reference (13/12/2010): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extreme_Programming 
 
1.2. Feature Driven Development  
Feature Driven Development (FDD) is an iterative and incremental software development 
process which is one of the agile approaches for software development. FDD combines number 
of industry-recognized best practices into a single approach. Its main purpose is to provide 
tangible, working software repeatedly in a timely manner. 
Reference (13/12/2010): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_Driven_Development 
 
1.3. Scrum 
Scrum is an agile approach to software development. Scrum is a framework which does not 
provide complete, detailed descriptions of how everything is to be done on the project; instead 
it is left to the team to decide how it is done.  
Reference (13/12/2010): http://www.mountaingoatsoftware.com/topics/scrum 
 
 
 
2. Four values in the Agile Manifesto are   
 
? Individuals and interactions over processes and tools 
? Working software over comprehensive documentation 
? Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
? Responding to change over following a plan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.    
 Responding to change over 
following a plan 
Working software over 
comprehensive documentation 
 
Extreme Programming In this method customers’ 
requirements are always 
gathered and according to those 
the product is changed 
Since products are released 
frequently in shorter period with 
changing customer requirements  
the software will work according 
to customers’ requirements but 
due to the large number of 
releases documentation is less 
Feature Driven Development Since lot of software 
development practices are 
involved there isn’t any specific 
plans, but the work is carried 
according to the needs that arise. 
Since there are many practices 
involved in development 
documentation process needs to 
be reduced because it will be 
tough to do the documentation 
according to all the practices that 
is being used. Since lot of practices 
are involved, if one method is not 
giving the desired results a new 
method can be adopted. So finally 
working software can be made. 
Scrum Scrum is a framework which does 
not provide complete, detailed 
descriptions. So the project will 
be carried according to the needs 
which arise and the decisions will 
be taken by the team. 
Since the team can decide on how 
the project is done they have the 
ability to reduce documentation 
processes and focus more on 
developing a working  product  
 
 
 
 
 
