Software Engineering 
Homework 4 
 
 
1. Agile software development methods 
? Extreme programming 
? Scrum 
? Feature driven development 
 
Extreme programming 
As Extreme programming has been successful in many companies of different sizes 
throughout the world, it is one of the popular agile processes. It is all about teamwork where 
the managers, customers, developers and etc. all are the part of the team. It is successful 
because it is targeted towards the customer satisfaction instead of delivering software that 
the programmers and the developing team needs. 
 
Scrum 
Scrum is a methodology that uses incremental or iterative for project management which 
uses the real world progress of the project. In this, first project is divided into blocks of equal 
sizes (2 or 3 weeks) which are known as Sprints. At the end of the each Sprint all the team 
members of the developing team and stakeholders are get together and assess the progress 
of the project and plan the future steps. 
 
Feature driven development 
Feature driven development (FDD) has target of delivering a working software according a 
time plan which is an iterative and incremental development software development process. 
This is model-driven process containing five steps. To keep track of the progress of each 
feature in the project the milestones are used. 
 
2. Values of Agile Manifesto 
? Individuals and interactions 
? Working software 
? Customer collaboration 
? Responding to change 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. How agile processes contain the values of the Agile Manifesto 
 
 Individuals and interactions Responding to change 
Extreme programming As all the team members and 
stakeholders are a part of the 
team they all have interactions 
with each other. So this helps to 
get to know the requirements of 
the stakeholders easily. 
As the communication 
between the stakeholders 
and the development team is 
very well, the changes can be 
made to the software even 
late in the life cycle. 
Scrum The stakeholders and the 
developing team get together to 
assess the progress of the 
project soon after a sprint 
complete. This gives the 
opportunity to the developing 
team to understand the 
stakeholders’ point of view 
about the software and how to 
improve it.  
In the sessions after a sprint is 
completed the development 
team can adjust the direction 
of the project if they have 
deviated from the desired 
solution by the stakeholders. 
Feature driven development In this the system is 
demonstrated to the clients to 
see the customers’ point of view 
about the software. So here the 
development team can get to 
the exact requirements of the 
stakeholders. But the 
interactions are not so well as in 
Scrum or the Extreme 
programming. 
Responding to change is not 
much good as in Scrum or 
Extreme programming as the 
developing team and 
stakeholders meet each other 
only at the demonstrations. 
But the changes can be made 
according to the stakeholders 
inquiries.  
 
 
References 
i. http://www.extremeprogramming.org/ 
ii. http://scrummethodology.com/ 
iii. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_%28development%29#Artifacts 
iv. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_Driven_Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W.K.M.S.P. Chandrasekara 
080046R 
