Homework Assignment 04 
D.S.P.Jayathilake 
080198H 
 
1. Name 3 agile software development methods/approaches and give a brief description (about 3-
4 sentences each) of each method. List the reference(s). (including URLs) that you used to 
answer this question.  
 
? Scrum – 
 
Scrum is a framework, rather than a full process or methodology. Instead of providing detailed 
descriptions on project management, much is decided by the development team, because the 
team knows best on how to solve its problem. Scrum depends on a cross functional, self 
organizing team. There is no overall team leader. Issues are faced by the team as a whole. Scrum 
projects make progress in sprints of no more than a month long. At the end of each sprint a 
sprint review is held.  
 
Ref - http://www.mountaingoatsoftware.com/topics/scrum 
 
? Crystal Methods –  
 
The Crystal Method, developed by Alistaire Cockburn, focuses on the people, interaction, 
community, skills, talents, and communications with the belief that these are what have the 
first-order effect on performance. Process, he says, is important, but secondary. This is one 
approach which makes agile development processes possible. This philosophie recognizes that 
each team has a different set of talents and skills based on its members, so a unique process 
must be tailored for each team. Hence the process should be minimized.  
 
 Ref - http://www.mariosalexandrou.com/methodologies/crystal-methods.asp 
 
? Context Driven Testing - 
 
This is a paradigm for developing and debugging software that takes into account the way in 
which the programs are expected to be used in the real world. This kind of testing requires the 
developers to know the intended market and used environment well. It takes In to account 
there is no single best solution for all cases, and that complex projects evolve in unpredictable 
ways. Advantages include increased user friendliness, and optimized functionality for intended 
users. 
 
 Ref - http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?ContextDrivenTesting 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Name the four values in Agile Development 
 
? Individuals and interactions over processes and tools 
? Working software over comprehensive documentation 
? Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
? Responding to change over following a plan  
 
3. Select two form the above values, and briefly describe each of the three agile methods named in 
question 1 satisfies the chosen agile manifesto values.  
 
 Individuals and interactions 
over processes and tools 
 
Responding to change over 
following a plan 
Scrum Scrum relies on a self organizing 
cross functional team, with no 
team leader. So decisions are 
taken as a whole, with 
intercommunication of team, 
Scrum master (facilitator) and 
product owner.  
Scrum projects progress in 
sprints. In each sprint a specific 
increment is developed and at 
the end of the sprint which is 
about 2 to 4 weeks ling a review 
is held and the next sprint is 
tailored to the changes discussed 
in the review. 
Crystal Method This focuses on the people, 
interaction, community, skills, 
talents, and communications 
with the belief that these are 
what have the first-order effect 
on performance. Process is 
important, but secondary. 
Generally process is time boxed 
in to few iterations of few weeks 
each. And the after the end of 
each process decisions are taken 
according to change. 
Context Driven Testing It revolves around the fact that 
software users are human beings 
with diverse preferences, needs, 
abilities and limitations. So This 
method focuses on addressing 
these different needs instead of 
testing on a fixed process.  
it takes into account the fact that 
complex software projects often 
evolve in unpredictable ways. So 
No specific plan is followed and 
testing is done according to the 
environment used and changing 
product context. 
 
