 
Homework 4 
Software Engineering 
 
 
HDK Gamage 
080118P 
 
  
2 | P a g e  
 
1. Extreme programming is used in software development to improve software quality 
and will react to changing customer requirements. In order to improve the productivity, 
it produces frequent releases in short development cycles. XP is designed in a way that 
any organization would be able to adopt the methodology. This will also reduce the cost 
while make it easy to adopt new customer requirements.  
 
Scrum is used in project management as an iterative incremental methodology. This 
can also be used to run software maintenance teams, or as a general project 
management approach. Scrum contains a set of practices and predefined roles. The 
main roles are, “Scrum Master”, “Product Owner”, and “Team”.   
 
The Crystal methodology is a lightweight, adaptable approach to software 
development. Crystal Clear, Crystal Yellow, Crystal Orange are some of the 
methodologies in the family of Crystal methodology. The characteristics of these 
methodologies are driven by several factors which can be identified as team size, system 
criticality, and project priorities. 
 
2. The four values of an agile process are, 
? Individuals and interactions over processes and tools 
? Working software over comprehensive documentation 
? Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
? Responding to change over following a plan 
 
3.  
 Customer collaboration Responding to change 
Extreme Programming In XP, contact with the customers 
occurs very frequently. The customer 
has a very clear idea about the 
development process. Programmers 
should listen to the customer needs 
for the system and what “business 
logic” is needed. They must 
understand these needs well enough 
to provide customer feedback of how 
to solve the problem, or that it cannot 
be solved. They will get an actual 
feedback of the current state of the 
system once in every two or three 
“Unit test” will give a direct 
feedback of how the system reacts 
to change. The principle of 
accepting change in XP is about not 
working against changes but 
embracing them. If we consider a 
situation in one iteration the 
customer’s requirements seemed 
to be changed dramatically, 
programmers will accept the 
situation and plan the new 
requirements for the next 
iteration.  
3 | P a g e  
 
weeks time so that the customer can 
easily keep track of the development 
process. Customers will write the 
functional tests along with the testers.  
 
Scrum In Scrum, the customers are only 
directly involved during the sprint 
reviews. The customers will produce 
the agreed-upon benefits, which will 
justify the production. The product 
owner represents the voice of the 
customer. They will make sure that the 
“Scrum team” (Product Owner, Scrum 
Master and Team) works towards the 
correct goal by writing customer 
centered items and prioritizing them in 
the product backlog. 
A main principle of Scrum is that 
the customers can change their 
minds about what they want and 
those changes cannot be easily 
addressed in a planned way. So 
Scrum uses an experimental 
approach accepting that the 
problem cannot be fully defined, 
focusing on the team’s ability to 
respond to upcoming 
requirements. 
 
Crystal Methodology In crystal methodology at every 
iteration the customer get a chance to 
check progress and alter the direction 
of the development process. So the 
customer is considered to have a 
powerful control over the 
development process. This creates a 
closer relationship between the 
developers and the customer. Even 
though this engagement level is not for 
every developer and customer, it is 
very helpful in making an adaptive 
process work properly. 
In each iteration a regular review 
of the process will be done which 
would help for the self- adaption of 
the project. The improvements for 
the project will be implemented as 
the project moves on.  
 
 
References: 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_software_development 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(development)#Characteristics 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extreme_Programming#Values 
http://www.slideshare.net/ifsse3/overview-agile-methods 
http://martinfowler.com/articles/newMethodology.html 
