W.D.M. Dhanuushka 
080083C 
Homework Assignment 4 
 
 
1.) 
? Agile Modeling 
 
Agile Modeling is a practice-based methodology for Modeling and documentation of 
software-based systems. It is intended to be a collection of values, principles, and 
practices for modeling software that can be applied on a software development project in 
a more flexible manner than traditional Modeling methods. 
 
? Extreme Programming 
 
Extreme Programming is a software development methodology which is intended to 
improve software quality and responsiveness to changing customer requirements. As a 
type of agile software development, it advocates frequent "releases" in short development 
cycles, which is intended to improve productivity and introduce checkpoints where new 
customer requirements can be adopted. 
 
? Feature Driven Development 
 
Feature Driven Development (FDD) is an iterative and incremental software development 
process. It is one of a number of Agile methods for developing software and forms part of 
the Agile Alliance. FDD blends a number of industry-recognized best practices into a 
cohesive whole. These practices are all driven from a client-valued functionality (feature) 
perspective. Its main purpose is to deliver tangible, working software repeatedly in a 
timely manner. 
 
References: 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_Modeling 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extreme_Programming 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_Driven_Development 
 
2.) 
? Individuals and interactions over processes and tools 
? Working software over comprehensive documentation 
? Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
? Responding to change over following a plan 
 
 
 
3.) 
 Working software over comprehensive 
documentation 
Responding to change over following a 
plan 
Agile 
Modeling 
 
The principles and values of Agile 
Modeling practices are intended to 
help mitigate the perceived flaws of 
Agile Software Development. The 
principle "Maximize Stakeholder 
Value" aims to inspire the developer to 
collaborate with the customer in 
providing an adequate level of 
documentation & produce high quality 
software at the end of the cycle. 
There is another principle called 
"Model With Others" in Agile 
modeling attempts to involve project 
stakeholders such as the client or 
customer in the Modeling process to 
attempt to bring the model more into 
line with the end user requirements. So 
this method is very flexible to model 
the final product according to feedback 
of the client. 
Extreme 
Programming 
 
Extreme programming has been 
described as having 12 practices, 
grouped into four areas: 
? Fine scale feedback 
? Continuous process 
? Shared understanding 
? Programmer welfare 
These are very helpful to produce 
working & high quality software at the 
end of the process. 
Within extreme programming, 
feedback relates to different 
dimensions of the system development. 
Feedback from the system: by writing 
unit tests, or running periodic 
integration tests. 
Feedback from the customer: This 
review is planned once in every two or 
three weeks so the customer can easily 
steer the development. 
Feedback from the team: When 
customers come up with new 
requirements in the planning game the 
team directly gives an estimation of the 
time that it will take to implement. 
Feature 
Driven 
Development 
 
FDD is a model-driven short-iteration 
process that consists of five basic 
activities. First three of them are 
helpful to produce workable software. 
Develop Overall Model 
The project starts with a high-level 
walkthrough of the scope of the 
system and its context. Next, detailed 
domain walkthroughs are held for each 
modeling area. 
Build Feature List 
The knowledge that is gathered during 
the initial modeling is used to identify 
a list of features 
Plan By Feature 
The next step is to produce the 
development plan. 
Next two of five basic activities helpful 
to interact with the stockholders & 
remodel the development process. 
Design By Feature 
A design package is produced for each 
feature. A chief programmer selects a 
small group of features that are to be 
developed within two weeks. Together 
with the corresponding class owners, 
the chief programmer works out 
detailed sequence diagrams for each 
feature and refines the overall model. 
Build By Feature 
After a successful design inspection a 
per feature activity to produce a 
completed client-valued function 
(feature) is being produced. 
 
