    Homework Assignment 4 
    Name     :  M.D.L Padmakumara 
    Index No: 080328J 
 
 
1. Agile software development methods/approaches 
 
1. Extreme Programming 
? Extreme Programming is a discipline of software development based on values of 
simplicity, communication, feedback, and courage.  
 
? It works by bringing the whole team together in the presence of simple practices, 
with enough feedback to enable the team to see where they are and to tune the 
practices to their unique situation. 
 
? It is applicable in projects with dynamically changing requirements, risky projects, 
and projects with Small dev groups (up to 100) and also non-fixed scope (price) 
contracts.[1] 
 
 
 
2. Crystal Methods 
? Crystal introduces the importance of people and communications, and adjusting the 
techniques used in a project to the characteristics of that particular project.  
 
? While other software development methods, particularly other agile methods, do 
stress the importance of people, the Crystal family uses a focus on people and 
communications as its organizing principle.  
 
? And most of the properties and techniques are based on strengthening that process.[2] 
 
 
3. Scrum Methodology  
   
? Scrum is unique because it introduced the idea of “empirical process control.” That 
is, Scrum uses the real-world progress of a project — not a best guess or uninformed 
forecast — to plan and schedule releases. 
 
? In Scrum, projects are divided into succinct work cadences, known as sprints, which 
are typically one week, two weeks, or three weeks in duration. 
 
? At the end of each sprint, stakeholders and team members meet to assess the 
progress of a project and plan its next steps. This allows a project’s direction to be 
adjusted or reoriented based on completed work, not speculation or predictions.[3] 
  
 
 
 
 
2. Values of Agile Manifesto 
 1) Individuals and interactions over processes and tools 
 2) Working software over comprehensive documentation 
 3) Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
 4) Responding to change over following a plan 
 
 
3 
.  
 Customer collaboration over contract 
negotiation 
Responding to change over 
following a plan 
Extreme 
Programming (XP) 
XP improves software quality by five 
critical ways;  
? communication,  
? simplicity,  
? feedback,  
? respect,  
? Courage.  
XP uses continuous communication 
between customer and fellow 
programmers and get the feedback from 
any of them. It depicts the customer 
collaboration of XP. 
In XP there are quite a few gatherings 
between customers and programmers. 
 
 Software will be implemented 
depending on these meeting decisions.  
 
Customers are free to change user 
requirements and programmers are 
flexible to modify their developed 
portions according to them. There is no 
specific plan for the project. 
Crystal Methods The Crystal family uses a focus on 
people and communications as its 
organizing principle. 
 
It uses a procedure which has frequent 
delivery of usable code to customers 
Crystal is always focusing on the 
importance of communication. 
 
It is an Agile, Agile methodology and 
it encourages the participants to stop 
and reflect on how they are using it and 
how they can alter it to make it work 
more effectively 
Scrum Scrum has the best customer 
collaboration approach out of the other 
Agile software development methods.  
 
Because it collaborate with customer 
once a “sprint” and decide the future 
plans.  
 
All the decisions are made in front of 
the customers. Therefore it highly uses 
customer collaboration over contract 
negotiation 
There isn’t any plan. It has only 
incremental iterative method.  
 
Sprint is the basic time duration which 
decides what will do in future sprints.  
 
Customer is free to change the 
requirements in any sprint which leads 
to change in the software. Therefore 
programmers always respond to 
change.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
4.  References  
 
? [1]http://download.microsoft.com/download/3/7/f/37f07f43-9783-465b-ac66-        
 e96a9cda582f/XpAgileConcepts.ppt 
? [2] http://www.projectconnections.com/templates/detail/agile-techniques-crystal.html 
? [3] http://scrummethodology.com/ 
? [4] http://mrjaba.posterous.com/crystal-agile-methodology 
 
 
