CS 3020 
Software Engineering 
Homework Assignment 4 
080183H 
1.) Agile software development methods 
 
? Extreme programming – this is an agile software development methodology which 
consists of short development life cycles which will improve productivity and which also 
introduce check points for the new customer requirements. This methodology includes 
elements like programming in pairs, code reviews and unit testing. This has a flat 
management structure. This also introduces basic values, principles and practices on top 
of agile programming frame work. 
 
? Feature driven development – this is an iterative and incremental s/w development 
process. It contains best practices which are all driven from a client-valued functionality. 
Purpose is to deliver working s/w in a timely manner. This methodology is a model 
driven short iteration process which consists of five basic activities. (feature teams, 
regular builds, inspections..). Lot of models are used throughout the process.(meta-
process model, overall model) 
 
? Scrum – this is also an iterative incremental approach which is used to s/w management 
as well as for s/w maintenance. It contains set of practices and predefined roles. 
“Working more hours doesn’t mean producing more output, “Happy team makes a 
tough task simple” are some general practices. Scrum Master, Product Owner, Team are 
the three main roles. In a short time period which is called a sprint the team creates a 
one increment of the product.  
References  
Extreme programming – Wikipedia 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extreme_Programming#Values 
Feature driven development – Wikipedia  
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_Driven_Development 
Scrum (development)  – Wikipedia  
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(development) 
 
2.) Four values in the Agile manifesto 
? Individuals and interactions over processes and tools. 
? Working software over comprehensive documents. 
? Customer collaboration over contract negotiation. 
? Responding to change over following plan. 
 
3.) How each method satisfies the manifesto value. 
 
Agile method Manifesto value – customer 
collaboration 
Manifesto value – Individuals and 
interactions 
Extreme 
programming 
In this method to get the customer 
feedback functional tests are written by 
the customer as well as the testers. 
From this they’ll get a concrete 
feedback about the current state of the 
system. This is planned once in every 
two or three weeks so that the 
customer can easily steer the 
development. 
Uses programming in pairs which will 
enhance a particular set of code written 
by both developers. They can always 
interact each other fix bugs and come up 
with a very good program. Uses a flat 
management structure where any 
individual in the project team can directly 
interact with each other.  
Feature driven 
development 
This uses the regular builds best 
practice to get the customer 
collaboration into the system. Regular 
builds ensures that there will always be 
an up to date system that can be 
demonstrated to the clients and get 
their feedback. This will help to 
highlight integration errors for the 
features developed for the system. 
This has feature teams which is a small 
dynamically formed team that develops a 
small activity in the system. Therefore 
each individual gets the chance of coming 
up with innovative ideas that needs to 
added to the feature. By doing this 
multiple mind are always applied to each 
decision of the system and these options 
are always evaluated before one is 
chosen. That way the team can come up 
with the best possible outcome. 
Scrum Key principle of this approach is the 
recognition of requirements churn. i.e. 
the customers can always change their 
mind and their wants.  Therefore the 
features that need to be added to the 
next sprint will be decided by the 
product backlog which is prioritized set 
of requirements which has taken from 
the customers after submitting the 
previous sprint. That way this includes 
the customer collaboration  
Team is one of the main role in Scrum. 
This is group which consists of people 
which has cross-functional skills in the 
actual work they do. This team would be 
responsible for deliver the product. They 
hold meetings each day during the sprint. 
Each team member would answer a set 
of question in terms of the work they 
have done, the work they planned the 
problems they faced and so on. This way 
other members would get an idea, 
suggest solutions for the problems. 
 
 
 
