Homework Assignment 4
1.
• Agile Modeling
• Agile Unified Process (AUP)
• Extreme Programming (XP)
Agile Modeling is a practice-based methodology for Modeling and documentation of software-based 
systems. It is intended to be a collection of values, principles, and practices for Modeling software that 
can be applied on a software development project in a more flexible manner than traditional Modeling 
methods. 
Agile Modeling is a supplement to other Agile methodologies such as:
• Extreme Programming 
• Agile Unified Process 
• Scrum 
In which it is used to replace the more standard UML, or other standard design tools.
Agile Unified Process (AUP) is a simplified version of the IBM Rational Unified Process (RUP) 
developed by Scott Ambler. It describes a simple, easy to understand approach to developing business 
application software using agile techniques and concepts yet still remaining true to the RUP. The AUP 
applies agile techniques including test driven development (TDD), Agile Modeling, agile change 
management, and database refactoring to improve productivity. 
Extreme Programming is a software development methodology which is intended to improve 
software quality and responsiveness to changing customer requirements. As a type of agile software 
development, it advocates frequent "releases" in short development cycles (time-boxing), which is 
intended to improve productivity and introduce checkpoints where new customer requirements can be 
adopted. 
References: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_Modeling
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_Unified_Process
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extreme_Programming
2.
• Reduce design complexity
• Working software over comprehensive documentation 
• Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
• Responding to change over following a plan 
3.
Reduce design complexity Comprehensive documentation
Agile Modeling Agile Modeling gives more 
flexibility to the design process
Ability to draw UML diagrams
Agile Unified Process Simplifies the designing process
ex:-database refactoring ability
A lot of templates
Extreme Programming (XP) Improves the quality of the 
product.
Frequent releases
