Software Engineering – Homewrok 4 W.S.S. Pathirana 080334A 
 
1) Agile Software Development Approaches 
 
1.1 Extreme Programming(XP) 
XP is a one of the agile software development approach which intended to improve 
software quality and responsiveness to changing customer requirements. 
The Life cycle of the XP consist of five basic phases : Exploration, Planning, Iterations to 
release, Testing and Maintenance. 
 
1.2 Scrum 
The scrum approach has been developed for the managing the systems development 
process which reintroduces the ideas of flexibility, adaptability and productivity. This 
method concentrated on how the team members should contribute to the production in 
order to produce the system flexibility in a changing environment. 
 
1.3 Essential Unified Process(EssUP) 
EssUP is an improvement on the rational unified process(RUP – industry standard 
software modeling process). It uses the practices like use cases, iterative development, 
architecture driven development which are taken from RUP, CMMI. Here the idea is that 
you pick those practices that can be applicable to a situation and then combine them 
into the process. 
 
References: 
Agile software development methods – Pekka Abrahamsson, Outi Salo, Jussi Ronkainen 
& Juhani Warsta  
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extreme_Programming 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(development) 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essential_Unified_Process 
 
2) Agile Manifesto 
Individuals and interactions over processes and tools 
Working software over comprehensive documentation 
Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
Responding to change over following a plan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3)  
 Customer collaboration over contract negotiation Responding to change over following a plan 
Extreme Programming 
Customer has to be onsite 
during the contract 
negotiation and he has to 
fully engage with the 
process. He writes user 
requirements which 
express the end user 
functionality and features. 
The development cycle is 
divided in to several stages, 
each having 2 to 3 weeks. 
Programmers have to plan 
iterations at the beginning. 
So customers assign 
priorities at each iteration 
starts. So plan can be 
change easily. 
Scrum 
Customers become a part 
of the development team. 
Frequent stakeholder 
meetings to monitor 
progress—balanced 
dashboard updates. The 
customer writes customer-
centric items, prioritizes 
them and then places them 
in the product backlog. 
Scrum has frequent 
intermediate deliveries 
with working functionality, 
like all other forms of agile 
software processes. This 
enables the customer to 
have working software 
earlier and enables the 
project to change its 
requirements according to 
changing needs. customers 
can change their minds 
about what they want and 
need 
EssUP 
Customer can have the 
software in an increment of 
is and he can suggest the 
changes and give feedbacks 
which will make it easier to 
the developers to 
understand what he really 
need.  
Software is developed in 
small increments and short 
iterations which allow 
identifying risks and 
problems early on and 
reacting to them 
adequately. 
 
