CS 3020 
Software Engineering 
Homework Assignment 4 
 
1)  
• Extreme Programming 
Extreme Programming is a discipline of software development based on values of simplicity, communication, 
feedback, and courage. As a type of agile software development, extreme programming advocates frequent 
"releases" in short development cycles, which is intended to improve productivity and introduce checkpoints 
where new customer requirements can be adopted. Extreme programming also include programming in pairs or 
doing extensive code review, unit testing of all code, avoiding programming of features until they are actually 
needed, a flat management structure, simplicity and clarity in code, expecting changes in the customer's 
requirements as time passes and the problem is better understood, and frequent communication with the 
customer and among programmers. 
 
• Scrum 
Scrum is an iterative, incremental methodology for project management often seen in agile software 
development. Rather than a full process or methodology, it is a framework. Although Scrum was intended for 
management of software development projects, it can be used to run software maintenance teams, or as a general 
project/program management approach. Scrum relies on a self-organizing, cross-functional team. The scrum team 
is self-organizing in that there is no overall team leader who decides which person will do which task or how a 
problem will be solved. Those are issues that are decided by the team as a whole. 
 
• Crystal Methods 
The Crystal methodology is one of the most lightweight, adaptable approaches to software development. Crystal is 
actually comprised of a family of methodologies (Crystal Clear, Crystal Yellow, Crystal Orange, etc.) whose unique 
characteristics are driven by several factors such as team size, system criticality, and project priorities. Several of 
the key tenets of Crystal include teamwork, communication, and simplicity, as well as reflection to frequently 
adjust and improve the process. Like other agile methodologies, Crystal promotes early, frequent delivery of 
working software, high user involvement, adaptability, and the removal of bureaucracy or distractions. 
 
References 
• http://xprogramming.com/book/whatisxp/  
• http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extreme_Programming 
• http://www.mountaingoatsoftware.com/topics/scrum 
• http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(development) 
• http://www.versionone.com/Agile101/Methodologies.asp 
 
 
2)  
• Individuals and interactions over processes and tools 
• working software over comprehensive documentation 
• Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
• Responding to change over following a plan 
 
 
3)  
 Individuals and interactions 
over processes and tools 
 
Responding to change over 
following a plan 
Extreme Programming 
 
Valuing individuals and interactions 
is a key in extreme programming. 
Extreme Programming sometimes 
devalues the experience of 
individuals. We can use any coding 
standard we like, just not on this 
project - the team outweighs 
individuals. Although they are just 
rules, extreme programming is 
intolerant of 
variations that could reduce 
predictability 
In actual life, requirements keep 
changing either because of 
emergence of new business 
opportunities or simply because the 
initial requirement-gathering phase 
was incomplete. Extreme 
Programming in-builds 
accommodation of such changed 
requirements through getting user 
stories at the start of iterations, and 
through feedback during the course 
of iterations. 
 
 
 
Scrum 
 
Scrum is a framework, which assigns 
roles and responsibilities, and leaves 
room for people to self organize and 
interact. People can self-organize 
within the scrum framework. In 
scrum some teams, having an on-
site customer is a great way to build 
trust, and effective communication 
between the business and the 
development team. This satisfies 
the above agile manifesto value. 
In scrum process the team has a 
certain amount of time, a sprint, to 
complete its work - usually two to 
four weeks. But meets each day 
(during a daily scrum) to share 
struggles and progress and update 
the sprint backlog and burn down 
chart accordingly. Therefore they 
get new updates everyday and they 
can respond them easily. 
Crystal Methods 
 
Crystal method aims to be the least 
intrusive set of rules that puts a 
project in the "Safety Zone". It aims 
to keep people informed. Its 
philosophy is that people work 
differently and have different 
needs. Software is communication 
intensive and experiment based and 
so requires constant feedback from 
all parties. It does not aim to be the 
most efficient, but the safest. So the 
crystal method satisfies the above 
agile manifesto value. 
In crystal methods the deliverables 
are shown, the accomplishments 
needed to produce these 
deliverables are defined and 
connected to the deliverables, the 
criteria by which the 
accomplishments are measured are 
defined, the work needed to 
produce the criteria are defined, 
resources assigned, and materials 
purchased. Therefore crystal 
method satisfies the above agile 
manifesto value.  
 
 
J. A. R. Chathunga 
080050A 
