 
 
 
 
Home work Assignment 4 
Software Engineering  
CS3020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sandeepani G.C. 
080455U 
 
CS3020 Assignment4 
 
1 
080455U  
1. A).  Scrum 
Scrum uses the real-world progress of a project, not a best guess or uninformed 
forecast to plan and schedule releases. In Scrum, projects are divided into succinct 
work cadences, known as sprints, which are typically one week, two weeks, or three 
weeks in duration. At the end of each sprint, stakeholders and team members meet to 
assess the progress of a project and plan its next steps. This allows a project’s 
direction to be adjusted or reoriented based on completed work, not speculation or 
predictions. 
 
References: -   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(development) 
http://scrummethodology.com   
http://www.mountaingoatsoftware.com/topics/scrum 
(Last Accessed: - Dec 2010) 
   
B). Extreme Programming (XP) 
XP is known as a methodology of Agile development. This is used in small, 
collocated project teams up to 10 members, more is probable. Development is flexible 
and lightweight. XP is based on twelve practices and four groups - collaboration, 
feedback, revision and respect. 
 
References: -   http://www.extremeprogramming.org/ 
  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extreme_Programming 
  http://www.agilemodeling.com/essays/agileModelingXP.htm   
(Last Accessed: - Dec 2010) 
 
C) Crystal Methods 
Crystal is actually comprised of a family of methodologies (Crystal Clear, Crystal 
Yellow, Crystal Orange, etc.) whose unique characteristics are driven by several 
factors such as team size, system criticality, and project priorities. This Crystal family 
addresses the realization that each project may require a slightly tailored set of 
policies, practices, and processes in order to meet the project’s unique characteristics. 
Several of the key tenets of Crystal include teamwork, communication, and 
simplicity, as well as reflection to frequently adjust and improve the process.  
 
References:-    http://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/Crystal_Methods 
http://productdevelop.blogspot.com/2009/10/quick-overview-of-crystal-
methods-type.html 
(Last Accessed: - Dec 2010)       
2.  
? Individuals and interactions over processes and tools 
? Working software over comprehensive documentation 
? Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
? Responding to change over following a plan 
 
CS3020 Assignment4 
 
2 
080455U  
3.  
 Customer collaboration Individuals and interactions  
Scrum 
 
A key principle of Scrum is its 
recognition that during a project the 
customers can change their minds 
about what they want and need 
(often called requirements churn), 
and that unpredicted challenges 
cannot be easily addressed in a 
traditional predictive or planned 
manner.  
The scrum team is self-organizing 
in that there is no overall team 
leader who decides which person 
will do which task or how a 
problem will be solved. Those are 
issues that are decided by the team 
as a whole. The team is cross-
functional so that everyone 
necessary to take a feature from 
idea to implementation is 
involved. These teams are 
supported by two specific 
individuals: a Scrum Master and 
a product owner 
Extreme 
Programming 
(XP) 
 
Extreme Programmers constantly 
communicate with their customers 
and fellow programmers. They 
keep their design simple and clean. 
They get feedback by testing their 
software starting on day one. They 
deliver the system to the customers 
as early as possible and implement 
changes as suggested.  
Extreme Programming emphasizes 
teamwork. Managers, customers, 
and developers are all equal 
partners in a collaborative team. 
Extreme Programming implements 
a simple, yet effective 
environment enabling teams to 
become highly productive. The 
team self-organizes around the 
problem to solve it as efficiently as 
possible.  
Crystal Methods 
 
Getting the customer involved in 
the software development process 
is essential to success. 
Collaborating with the customer (or 
customer proxy) on a daily basis is 
one of the key reasons why industry 
data shows that agile projects have 
more than twice the success rate of 
traditional projects on average 
worldwide. Crystal method has 
recognize this and, as such, have 
created a place on their 
development teams that is 
specifically for the customer 
representative. 
Crystal Methods recommend a 
specific methodology for each 
project based on three critical 
factors: communication density, 
system criticality, and project 
prioritization. The smaller the 
team, the more likely it can just 
retire into a conference room and 
build the product, without a lot of 
status reporting, knowledge 
transfer, or written documentation. 
All the members in those small 
groups work together to achieve 
the common goal of creating the 
software. 
 
